foreign
we do have another great session
um I'm really excited to share that we
have Nicole platform sales leader at
straight we'll be discussing the top
five tips for managing sales teams in
economic slowdown
so really excited
um to speak with her today a reminder to
get your questions ready I know this is
a really relevant Topic at this time so
make sure you get those questions into
the chat so we have enough time at the
end of this session to answer them I'll
be messaging you to see if you're
comfortable to unmute and talk through
the answers live
so with that Nicole welcome
thank you Caitlin um I'm excited to be
here today
yeah excited to see you as well
um as we normally do I am going to start
off with a few questions to kick this
off
and get to know you a little bit better
so first question how would you define
what you do at stripe
um I appreciate the the softball
questions to begin with um but I'm a
platform sales leader at stripe I've
been at stripe for a little over four
years now and platform sales at stripe
uh simply means we work with digital
platforms that embed payments or
financial services into their own
offering or ecosystem and then
distribute them on to their own
customers so think of say Shopify
Squarespace mind body and the like
great
very nice
uh oh yeah what you do to the for your
day-to-day a good way to get things
rolling
um what project are you working on today
you're most excited about
I am I am most so um I have a background
in payments I work at visa for a bit and
I'm most excited about getting back to
the core attributes and Foundation of
payments at stripe
um I think there have been a lot of um
you know changes that have happened in
the last year and exciting to see how we
can move that forward
um especially in the next six to 12
months
great okay
stating stuff ahead and then the hardest
question of our lineup in the last 12
months what's been the hardest thing
you've worked on
ooh there's so many challenging things I
think for all of us I mean it's about
the challenge and it's um you know it's
an exciting opportunity but we have been
thinking a lot about embedded financial
services at stripe and I work closely
with our stripe Capital team over the
last 12 months
um and it's been you know the concept of
um of lending is in is it a new one but
the idea of serving servicing that
through um SAS platforms um has been a
new approach and it's been both
challenging and Incredibly rewarding to
think about the go to market on that
front
very cool okay challenging and rewarding
so a good combination there
um thank you for letting us ask some
intro questions there but I will let you
take it away uh with your presentation
thank you again for joining great thank
you and thank you all for for your time
today
um I do hope to keep this conversation
also at the end um think of all the
questions and got to answer anything
that I can
um as I briefly mentioned at the top um
with Caitlin I currently work at strip
today I've been there over four years
working on the platform sales
organization and I've also spent some
time launching from the ground up the
left hand sales team too and prior to
this I started my career uh selling or I
could say cold calling on a landline
into a recession so that bringing that
experience to this conversation but also
a number of different operational roles
and startups like uber and larger
Enterprises like Visa Etc and regardless
of the titles or the logos that I might
have worked at in the past I consider
myself a builder and I think from that
perspective and despite the economic
Times we're in a downturn whatever you
might call it I still see a lot of
opportunity and that's largely how I
approach this conversation today about
how we can continue to see the times
that we're in today
um as a productive productive and
fruitful one of that too
so I'm just I'm going to set the table a
little bit and
let's see let's go to this next slide
here
so I'm going to set the scene and
articulate uh what you probably already
observed what you know and experience
today and that is in the current
economic slowdown uh deal Cycles get
longer new business gets tougher and
cross-selling and upselling into your
existing customer base they're
increasingly more importance
um deal Cycles get longer more scrutiny
more stakeholders every penny is
measured and overturned more parties are
involved decision making gets more
opaque and in general you're going to
see more complexity
um and more more complexity and time
getting introduced in how we're closing
deals
um new business gets tougher there's
less General appetite for risk and
change in appetite for change as budgets
tighten and then lastly if you are in
the position with the existing customers
that you have that are loyal to you and
know the value that you'll already
delivered today ideally you're able then
to go into that customer base and think
about expansion opportunities either
finding new units or organizations to
cross-sell and upsell into or new
products and services that they could
benefit from too so yeah generally
probably things that you're also already
seeing in your own organization
and with that all bearing all of that in
mind
um there are a couple of things that I
think that I keep top of mind or I think
to myself in this environment too
um and the first thing is that
um just like in high growth periods down
markets or slowdowns are also temporary
so we're in a cycle we don't know
exactly the length or can't predict the
length of this cycle but we do know what
we do know is that it won't last forever
and
um
when budgets tighten and there is more
scrutiny the cream does rise to the top
and you'll continue to win on value and
this is a really important Point
um
our customers are going to continue to
ask for discounts and and have that
perspective but our ability to continue
to articulate
um the problems that we're solving
connected to the products and services
and solutions that we provide and hold
the line on value as much as possible is
an important one to to keep in mind
um and the last one here is that
opportunity can be born out of trying
times and so
um as one small one small anecdote here
uh stripe was born out of the last
recession and there are a number of
important names or interesting names um
to add to that list too so just some
general thoughts
okay but I'm gonna jump right into the
top five tips here for managing a team
through an economic downturn my thoughts
and and most importantly what I'm what
I'm recalling from my most recent or
current experience at stripe
um I'll check through this list and then
we'll go through some of them in detail
um the first is you can't control
uncertainty but you can create stability
for your team and the way that you
communicate that is is incredibly
important
um same thing when you're thinking
externally for the customers and for the
market it's communicating that empathy
and value and Shifting the messaging
you're delivering to your customers
um it's like I mentioned investing in
customer relationships we understand
that there is the opportunity to go back
where we've already won uh the one legal
and procurement and gone through that
process they trust us they see the value
we can go back think about upselling
cross-selling but really investing in
customer relationships and rotating that
value that's you can continue to build
the foundation of your Revenue
um forecasting with more agility it's
probably safe to say with high
probability that the sellers on your
team today are probably selling through
a downturn for the first time and
helping them understand how to
anticipate the additional risks and
anticipate the additional scrutiny
understand how to navigate the
additional stakeholders that are now
involved in a deal will be increasingly
important and then the last piece is
something that I've been personally
thinking a lot about which is yes
multi-threading through an organization
but especially empowering the internal
Champion that your team is working with
and making sure that that internal
Champion can be a voice to win the
hearts and minds and and continue to
sell through an organization with you
when you can't always do the same one by
one as like I mentioned different
stakeholders coming into a deal adding
more scrutiny Etc
so I'll go back here I'll start from the
top and I'll share a little bit more
detail and hopefully get a little bit
tactical also so you can walk away I
don't know and maybe with hopefully one
or two tidbits here
um at the end at the end of this
um so the first piece here is that
um for your team you can't control the
uncertainty but you can create that
stability and before I get into the how
this a little bit about how I think
about the why and the why is you're you
want to create an environment where your
team still feels like they can take
risks that they can be wrong sometimes
and that they can be in an environment
where they're continuing to try new
things and be high performing themselves
and so the two things that um
more recently
um we've discussed um on our team and
doing is one communication structure
that's been especially helpful
um that structure is creating structure
to ambiguity and it falls into three
parts and so those three parts are
communicating very clearly very directly
what you know
communicating very clearly and very
directly what you don't know but what
you will know and when ideally and then
being really clear and transparent about
the third thing here which is what you
don't know and going back and as you
provide updates to the team it creates a
sense of
um stability around what is actually
kind of in this black hole or what what
um what is in the ambiguity and starts
to just create a little bit of a
framework around that also
um for the the last thing that I'll
mention here too is that um there are
all sorts of ways to
um and this one actually might be a
little bit more simple but
um as much as things might change around
us
your ultimate goals and your missions
will likely hold true and so keeping
your goals and your targets clear and
stable and then in addition to that
repeating that as often as possible is
super helpful for the team to create
that environment of stability
and so what I do is unlikely what you're
doing on your own calls but on the
weekly calls that we have with our team
is reminding and reminding them that
that's not changing the fundamentals
aren't changing and the idea behind that
is repetition breeds familiarity and
familiar familiarity breeds confidence
and trust and so that's the environment
we're trying to create there with
stability
um similar thoughts here with um how we
might approach customers as well and so
um when Topline revenue and growth
becomes more uncertain they'll be
focused on their bottom line on cost
savings and operational efficiency and
it's important to meet them where we
where we imagine their Mind's Eye to be
as well and so ideally you're
empathizing with the customer an
important importantly communicating that
directly as well and checking in with
them as people and not just as prospects
and so um you know there's uh in in an
environment where you feel the increased
pressure and you feel the increase
uncertainties sometimes folks react in
different ways but reminding the team to
respond to customers empathetically is
is an important one
and in good times it's you know it's in
good times it's it's a lot about growth
but now customer messaging is let's talk
about how other businesses like yours or
I'll say it another way
um
when everything's going really well the
messaging that we we typically deliver
or at stripe is
um let's talk about how other businesses
like yours are working with stripe to
grow their top line revenue and as soon
as we started to feel a shift in the
market and how people were feeling and
anticipating and starting to
um you know respond to different actions
in their own business that messaging
started to shift to let's talk about how
businesses like yours are working with
stripe to save money and become more
operationally efficient so
staying close to again meeting your
customers where they are or get
reminding them that you understand where
they're coming from also and then of
course making sure that you have the
product and services and solutions to
deliver on those things but the
communication piece probably being the
most important year
uh the third piece here is investing in
your customer relationships
um I do hear a lot about expansion
investing in expansion and cross-sell
and upsell but what I mean most by this
is
um instead of focusing the team only on
growing Revenue it's about reminding
them
and ideally having the structure on your
team so as you're not losing Revenue in
the first place from your existing
Revenue base so working with your team
to retain your customers and their
revenue because
um it's probably a smart idea to remind
yourself that they're probably going to
come and knock on your door even if they
are happy customers and ask for some
discounts in some way or form and so yes
retaining that customer retaining the
revenue they have today before it
becomes a gap in your number and then
ideally up up and beyond that expanding
into the install base
um the fourth piece here is forecasting
with more agility
um like I mentioned sellers are probably
selling into a down market for the for
the first time ever in a career and it's
been a great run that we've had but
helping folks understand how to
anticipate that uncertainty in their own
pipeline is going to be super important
and so be ready to dive in be ready to
double click be ready to help your team
see around corners and articulate the
risks themselves that may have not
existed for them before and importantly
welcome talking openly about the
unforeseen risks on your team so that
you're not ideally we're not creating
blinders for your team or for others as
to and what the reality is of your
funnel versus
um versus what we what we hope it is or
what it used to be in a better Market
um and like I mentioned this last piece
here on this on the last tip is about
intern empowering your internal champion
and so we think a lot about in
multi-threading and so mapping
one-to-one ideally the executives and
the different day-to-day operators
within an organization or deal that
you're working on and that is
exceptionally important and will
continue to be important the other thing
that I think about and anticipate is an
Ideal World
um or in a in
in in a deal cycle usually you can
multi-thread in your in only your top
accounts and even with the best strategy
and the best intention you're we
anticipate getting blocked in certain
ways and so knowing that and be ready
for that is super important that's what
I mean by empowering your internal
champion and so
um more specifically empowering your
internal Champion means ideally you're
already texting with them you're on a
really great relationship you built
um you know they understand the value in
the business case but it's really about
arming them so they can do the same as
they go through their own organization
that undoubtedly they'll know better
than yourself or your team and so
um as before but
um it's even more important in this
environment is ensuring that the
internal Champion that you have within
your partner organization
um has the assets has the case studies
has the customer proof points has the
ability to articulate and can speak to
almost at heart the value that uh you're
providing that other customers can speak
to as well it's those customer proof
points that are especially important in
these times that that are emotionally
helpful to make tough decisions these
days
and then the second piece is logically
they still need to make a decision you
know like I mentioned
um likely the deal is getting every
dollar spent is getting more scrutinized
so making sure they do have an airtight
business case
um written down
um that potentially includes an Roi
model that helps you to demonstrate the
investment that they're making in the
partnership or
um in the motion that you're thinking
about today so yes it's about
multi-threading assuming that it's not
always the ideal case that you get in
every single deal and every single
perfect partnership it's also about
making sure that reminding your team
that your internal Champion is really
going to be a key partner for you in in
these times
um so I'll end with that so ideally for
your team creating stability doing the
same thing articulating that with your
customers anticipating a lot of that
risk articulating that with your team
getting them comfortable with it so
you're
um despite the uncertainty also building
that into your forecasting and then
remembering and remembering your
internal champion and making sure that
they're extra armed um in these times
so looking forward to Let's brainstorm
and discuss
great okay well thank you so much
um we can take the slide down while we
head to q a just to make sure we can see
all of you while you're asking questions
um if you want to ask questions and come
off of mute feel free to do so as well
as turning on your video so we can make
this an interactive discussion
um first question uh Massimo if you want
to kick us off
um it looks like you have a question in
the chat that's also getting some plus
ones
uh sure I I just got a bad cold so not
sounding too good but my question was
what are your recommendations on how to
handle uh requests for discounts uh on
existing contracts especially when
they're substantial requests for this
Council and do you draw the line at a
certain discount amount at all
yes to your last the latter part of your
question yeah I think it's important to
be able to make the pre-decision with
your team from a leadership level and
then communicate that early with it with
them with your team so that they can
anticipate and set expectations and I
think the last thing that you want in a
with a customer that you highly value
and that you have a great relationship
is to deliver a sense of surprise or
something that they can't anticipate so
very much yes to knowing where your line
is um holding that line where possible
and ideally pre-communicating that with
your team too so that that
predetermination
um the other thing that I think about
too that we think about
um is
um because I'll say it this way uh
slowing down to speed up which is
um
the more that we can understand about
their business and the more that we can
understand why they're asking for a
discount are the forecast changing is
something on what about their business
Dynamic what about their p l is changing
so we can get an understand of where
they're feeling the pain the most and
where our solution still fits and also
where we can where we might have an
opportunity to to build a better
partnership together if costs if our
costs or if there's room in in the
pricing that we have today to build a a
longer term opportunity
um and more specifically what I think
about that is that you know if if in the
short term you're thinking about some
sort of discounted pricing ideally
you're also putting together long-term
Partnerships
um with with these customers where
you're building commitments that they
might continue to invest in other parts
of your organization too
um so I hope that
um I hope I've articulated it okay but
essentially framing how you might walk
into you know understanding the user
where they're coming from and making
sure that you're solving not just the
discount but solving the solving the
thing that is most painful for them
today and then helping to shape the give
gets and ideally we're for
um thinking about the longer term
commitment even if there's a short-term
temporary loss on on Revenue
okay and any follow-up on that
all right
um we have a question in the chat from
Kevin if you would like to unmute and
ask
sure thanks Nicole for doing this this
is this is great
um my question would be how do you
suggest getting multi-threaded with more
of the senior level decision makers
um and getting access there without
running the risk of you know frustrating
your main POC or Champion or having them
feel like you're just going above their
head
yeah
um it's always Case by case but that's
probably not that's that's not a
sufficient answer here it feels like
um I think like the the real answer I
have for that is um
um similar to my to my previous
responses helping them anticipate that
that's normalizing that process and so
very early on in any in any deal that we
have we kind of explain the process that
we'll take them through and one of those
includes likely we'll get leadership
involved likely they'll Reach Out
directly to you know ex-person that you
want to get connected to just to set the
expectation that
um you know we do this all the time it's
completely normal it's not because of
anything that you're doing incorrectly
or not right
um and it's more just to make sure that
we have the partnership in a great place
great any follow-up questions on that
no it's helpful thank you
great okay
um so question about percent of sales
team promoting and firing during rough
Financial Times do you have a go-to
statistic you use do you believe in
promoting during those times you believe
in firing during those times
um and if so what guidelines do you use
oh that's a that feels like a a question
for a much larger conversation
um I I mean I'd say it really depends on
um you
the revenue goals in the short term for
your organization how you structured
your organization what your variable and
your fix comp and costs look like and
um and then I think you also have to
think about
um it's it's one way to think about it
is the cost savings and also the revenue
that each rep is generating but also the
engagement and the expertise that you're
losing when you go through those tough
Cycles so
on the promotion piece I don't have a
specific stat but I do believe very
strongly that you're strong that the
environment might change around all of
us but I'd say this the same thing about
about ourselves and that it doesn't
change this the skills or or the
expertise that we have today the same
seller that you know sold and and
um you know as part of the president's
club last year could have a very
different year based on based on a very
different environment and that doesn't
necessarily always speak to
um their skills changing so to speak so
I'd say
um probably emphatically there's always
you know different edge cases here that
we should continue to
um reward High performers
um and then I think
I'd
I'd consider I'd consider product Market
fit as much as
um
what we're putting on the sales team in
earlier stage companies and and probably
even stripe that means for earlier stage
products right
um in in trying to parse out when you're
missing Revenue numbers or when you have
Revenue targets that you're trying to
get to what is a function of the sales
process or individual sales reps versus
you know how the product or the service
is resonating in the market too
great okay thank you for
um that feedback and if there's any
follow-up on that please let us know
what is your perspective on hiring a VP
of demand gen that's something we talk
about a lot at zoster I would love to
hear your thought process on
uh my two quick thoughts a year are
um
ideally salespeople aren't on the hook
and they're the main primary focus with
um some of the best reps that you have
are building relationships and closing
deals and in an ideal world they're not
also creating demand or necessarily
prospecting because that depending on
your product and service again that can
feel like an inefficient time for what
you're what you're what your your rep is
there for
um and so I'd say probably in very
general terms I'm bullish on Dimension
serving as that function especially
cutting through the chase or cutting
through the noise when it comes to just
creating demand in general so
um
yeah I'll end with that because I see I
said time and I see a lot of value in
that specific function
great
um what are some ways you retain and
grow your top customers do you have any
programs in place for retention
um anything along those lines
yeah I think some of the things that
we're excited about
um I'll mention one program at stripe
specifically but we have a customer
Advisory board or we've had different
variations of that it might be called
something different these days but
certainly I mean you probably want it to
within your product or your solution
organization getting feedback from your
top customers and what they're looking
for also and so making sure that they
have a seat at the table and making sure
that they're connected to your
organization and Leadership and and feel
like it's a it's a two-way partnership
and a two-way street on having that
relationship I think is super important
so the the idea of some form of customer
Advisory board has been I think very
helpful
do you have any follow-up question do
you have any tips and tricks to making
that customer Advisory Board useful for
those customers I feel like some people
or some companies struggle to make that
a useful
um
useful asset to those joining
yeah that's a great question I think
it's you know asking for feedback
um isn't an important thing and
certainly I think people value being
asked for feedback but at the same time
it's it's like I mentioned a two-way
street so making sure that when you're
creating intentional time for a customer
Advisory Board you're also ideally you
know providing some thought first that
leadership perspectives and your own
particular field of expertise that they
can learn from also and so ideally
they're helping you learn about your
organization and how you know there is a
customer are seeing that and you're also
able to add some thought leadership
about
um about how so they should run their
business too
great all right
um if we don't have any more questions I
know we are at time
um I guess one final question
um what are like a prediction or two you
have for sales in 2023
ooh
I actually stopped predicting the future
um in 2020.
um but I will say I think I'm just
watching really closely I think what we
all are which is I'd never had no
expectations for um chat gbt to be where
it is today and I'm very excited to see
what that does across many Industries
including our own in sales
great okay well thank you so much Nicole
I know this was really timely content
um and we really appreciate you coming
today and speaking to us thank you all
for joining as well
um love to have you here and hear all of
your insights comments questions
Etc
foreign
[Music]